## Animations

For more explicit control over changes on the page, CSS offers keyframe animation.

A *keyframe* refers to a specific point in an animation. You define some number of keyframes, and the browser fills in, or interpolates, all the frames in between.

### Keyframes

Animations in CSS contain two parts:

- `@keyframes` at-rule: defines an animation.
- `animation` property: applies the animation to an element.

Ensure the ending values match the beginning values if you want animation to be smooth.

CSS rules applied by an animation take precedence over other declarations. This ensures all the declarations in the keyframes animate in concert with one another, regardless of what other rules might be applied to the element outside the animation.

Use `animation-fill-mode` to apply animation styles before or after the animation plays:

- `none`: initial value, which means the animation styles are not applied to the element before or after the animation.
- `backwards`: the browser takes the values from the first frame of the animation and applies them to the element before the animation is played.
- `forwards`: continues to apply the last frame values after the animation completes.
- `both`: fills both back- ward and forward.

An animation can be used several times throughout the stylesheet, so its definition doesn’t necessarily need to be located with the code for the module that uses it. You can keep all `@keyframe` definitions together in one place, near the end of the stylesheet.

### Conveying meaning through animation

Animations can be used for responding to user interaction and drawing the user's attention. Animations don’t need to be obvious or flamboyant to provide reassurance to users that their actions did what they intended.