## 2. Working with relative units

When you’ve multiple ways to solve a particular problem, you’ll need to favor the solution that works more generally under multiple and different circumstances.

### em

`em`: 1 em means the font size of the current element.

Using ems can be convenient when setting properties like `padding`, `height`, `width`, or `border-radius` because these will scale evenly with the element if it inherits different font sizes, or if the user changes the font settings.

`font-size` ems are derived from the *inherited* font size. For most browsers, the default font size is 16px.

### rem

`rem`: relative to the root element.

The `:root` pseudo-class selector is equivalent to the `html` type selector.

Use rems for font sizes, pixels for borders, and ems for most other measures, especially paddings, margins, and border radius. Use percentages for container widths when necessary.

### Setting default font size

```css
:root {
    font-size: 0.875em; /* 14 px; 14/16 = 0.875 */
}
```

### Viewport-relative units

Viewport-relative units define lengths relative to the browser's viewport.

- `vh`: 1/100th of the viewport height
- `vw`: 1/100th of the viewport width
- `vmin`: 1/100th of the smaller dimension, height or width
- `vmax`: 1/100th of the larger dimension, height or width

Using `calc()` for font size;

```css
:root {
    font-size: calc(0.5em + 1vw);
}
```

This will make the font scale smoothly.

### Unitless numbers

Properties that allow for unitless values:

- `line-height`: this can prevent the overlapping text because of small line height.
- `z-index`
- `font-weight`: `700` is equivalent to bold; `400` is equivalent to normal

Example:

```css
body {
    line-height: 1.2; /* Descendant elements inherit the unitless value */
}
```

When you use a unitless number, that declared value is inherited, meaning its com- puted value is recalculated for each inheriting child element.

### Custom properties (CSS variables)

The name must begin with two hypthens (`--`). Variables must be declared inside a declaration block.

Example:

```css
:root {
    --main-font: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
    --brand-color: #369;
}

p {
    font-family: var(--main-font, sans-serif);
    color: blue; /* fallback */
    color: var(--brand-color, blue); /* blue is the fallback value */
}
```

The `var()` function accepts a second parameter, which specifies a fallback value.

The declarations of custom properties cascade and inherit: You can define the same variable inside multiple selectors, and the variable will have a different value for various parts of the page. The custom properties behave as a sort of scoped variable because the values are inherited by descendant elements.

Use JavaScript to access custom properties:

```javascript
var rootElement = document.documentElement;
var styles = getComputedStyle(rootElement);
var mainColor = styles.getPropertyValue('--main-bg');

rootElement.style.setProperty('--main-bg', '#cdf');
```