## 6. Grid layout

The *grid container* is the element with `display: grid` and its child elements are *grid items*.

[Basic grid example](https://codepen.io/jimmieego/pen/MXbNgp)

Notes:

- The container behaves like a block display element, filling 100% of the available width.
- Your design doesn’t need to fill every cell of the grid. Leave a cell empty where you want to add whitespace.
- Each grid item must be a child element of the grid container.

### Flexbox vs. grid

Flexbox is basically one-dimensional, whereas grid is two-dimensional. With flexbox, if lines wrap, items in one row don't necessarily align with items in another row.

Flexbox works from the content out, whereas grid works from the layout in. Flexbox lets you arrange a series of items in a row or column, but their sizes don’t need to be explicitly set. Instead, the content determines how much space each item needs. With grid, you are first and foremost describing a layout, then placing items into that structure.

When your design calls for an alignment of items in two dimensions, use grid. When you’re only concerned with a one-directional flow, use flexbox. In practice, this will often (but not always) mean grid makes the most sense for a high-level layout of the page, and flexbox makes more sense for certain elements within each grid area.

### Alternate syntaxes

Naming grid lines:

```css
grid-template-columns: [start] 2fr [center] 1fr [end];
```

Naming grid areas:

```css
grid-template-areas: "title title"
                     "nav   nav"
                     "main  aside1"
                     "main  aside2";

.main {
  grid-area: main;
}
```

Note each named grid area must form a rectangle. You can leave a cell empty by using a period as its name.

### Implicit grid

All grid items must be direct children of the grid container.

By default, implicit grid tracks will have a size of `auto`, meaning they’ll grow to the size necessary to contain the grid item contents. The properties `grid-auto-columns` and `grid-auto-rows` can be applied to the grid container to specify a different size for all implicit grid tracks (for example, `grid-auto-columns: 1fr`).

[Example on codepen](https://codepen.io/jimmieego/pen/yEjVGQ)

`minmax()`: specifies two values—a minimum size and a maximum size.

The `auto-fill` keyword is a special value you can provide for the `repeat()` function. With this set, the browser will place as many tracks onto the grid as it can fit, without violating the restrictions set by the specified size (the `minmax()` value).

Note that `auto-fill` can also result in some empty grid tracks, if there are not enough grid items to fill them all. If you don’t want empty grid tracks, you can use the keyword `auto-fit` instead of `auto-fill`. This causes the non-empty tracks to stretch to fill the available space.

`grid-auto-flow`:

- `grid-auto-flow: row`: initial value; places grid items column by column, row by row, according to the order of the items in the markup. When an item doesn’t fit in one row (that is, it spans too many grid tracks), the algorithm moves to the next row, looking for space large enough to accommodate the item.
- `grid-auto-flow: column`: places items in the columns first, moving to the next row only after a column is full.
- `grid-auto-flow: row dense`: the keyword `dense` causes the algorithm to attempt to fill gaps in the grid, even if it means changing the display order of some grid items.

### Feature queries

Example:

```css
@supports (display: grid) {
  /* more css grid code */
}
```

Feature queries may be constructed in a few other ways:

- `@supports not(<declaration>)`: Only apply rules in the feature query block if the queried declaration isn’t supported.
- `@supports (<declaration>) or (<declaration>)`: Apply rules if *either* queried declaration is supported.
- `@supports (<declaration>) and (<declaration>)`: Apply rules only if *both* queried declarations are supported.

### Reference

- [Grid by example](https://gridbyexample.com/)