## 7. Positioning and stacking contexts

The initial value of the `position` property is `static`. When you change this value to anything else, the element is said to be `positioned`. An element with static positioning is `not positioned`.

Positioning removes elements from the document flow entirely.

### Fixed positioning

`position: fixed`: position the element arbitrarily within the viewport.

`top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left`: specify how far the fixed element should be from each edge of the browser viewport.

A fixed element is removed from the document flow. It no longer affects the position of other elements on the page. To make sure other content doesn't flow behind a fixed element, try adding a margin to the fixed element.

### Absolute positioning

Absolute positioning is based on the closest positioned ancester element (a different containing block than the viewport). As with a fixed element, the properties `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left` place the edges of the element within its containing block.

Absolute positioning is used often in conjunction with JavaScript for popping up menus, tooltips, and “info” boxes.

### Relative positioning

Main usage: Use `position: relative` to establish the containing block for an absolutely positioned element inside it.

With relative positioning, the `top`, `right`, `bottom`, and `left` properties shift the element from its original position, but they won't change the position of any elements around it.

You can use `top` or `bottom`, but not both together (`bottom` will be ignored); likewise, you can use `left` or `right`, but not both (`right` will be ignored).

### Stacking

The elements appearing later in the HTML markup are painted over the top of the previous ones.

The browser first paints all non-positioned elements, then it paints the positioned ones. By default, any positioned element appears in front of any non-positioned elements.

Typically, modals are added to the end of the page as the last bit of content before the closing `</body>` tag.

#### `z-index`

The `z-index` property can be set to any integer (positive or negative). Elements with a higher z-index appear in front of elements with a lower z-index. Elements with a negative z-index appear behind static elements.

Note:

- `z-index` only works on positioned elements. You cannot manipulate the stacking order of static elements.
- Applying a `z-index` to a positioned element establishes something called a *stacking context*.

#### Stacking context

A stacking context consists of an element or a group of elements that are painted together by the browser. One element is the root of the stacking context, so when you add a `z-index` to a positioned element that element becomes the root of a new stacking context. All of its descendant elements are then part of that stacking context.

All the elements within a stacking context are stacked in this order, from back to front:

- The root element of the stacking context
- Positioned elements with a negative `z-index` (along with their childen)
- Non-positioned elements
- Positioned elements with a `z-index` of `auto` (and their children)
- Positioned elements with a positive `z-index` (and their children)

Notes:

- Stacking contexts deal with which elements are in front of other elements; block formatting contexts deal with the document flow and whether or not elements will overlap.
- Positioning takes elements out of the document flow. Generally speaking, you should only do this when you need to stack elements in front of one another.

### Sticky positioning

The element scrolls normally with the page until it reaches a specified point on the screen, at which point it will “lock” in place as the user continues to scroll. A common use-case for this is sidebar navigation.

Example:

```css
.sticky {
  position: sticky;
  top: 1em; /* Dock 1em from the top of the viewport */
}
```