## 9. Modular CSS

Modular CSS means breaking the page up into its component parts. These parts should be reusable in multiple contexts, and they shouldn’t directly depend upon one another. The end goal is that changes to one part of your CSS will not produce unexpected effects in another.

### Base styles

Example:

```css
:root {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

*,
*::before,
*::after {
  box-sizing: inherit;
}

body {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}
```

Only add styles here that you want applied to most or all of the page. No class names or IDs in the selectors here. Only target elements by their tag type and the occasional pseudo-class. These styles provide the global look you want, but are easy to override later when you need to.

Tool: [normalize.css](https://necolas.github.io/normalize.css/). Add this before your stylesheet as part of your base styles.

### Module and variations

Use class names to define CSS modules. Use modifiers to make variations.

Create a modifier by defining a new class name that begins with the module’s name. For example, an `error` modifier for the Message module might be `message--error`.

To use a modifier, add both the main module class and the modifier class to an element.

Note:

- Always keep all the code for a module together in the same place. Then your stylesheet will consist of a series of modules, one after another.
- Changing the font size adjusts the element’s em size, which, in turn, changes the padding and border radius without having to override their declared values.

**Don't write context-dependent selectors**. Never use descendant selectors to alter a module based on its location in the page. When you need a module to look or behave differently, create a modifier class that can be applied directly to the specific element. For example, instead of writing `.page-header .dropdown`, for example, write `.dropdown--dark`.

#### Modules with multiple elements

Use `module__subelement` (double underscore).

Example class names in CSS: `.media`, `.media__image`, `.media__body`.

**Avoid generic tag names in module selectors**. A selector like `.page-header > span` is too broad.

### Modules composed into larger structures

Single Responsibility Principle: Modules should each be responsible for one thing. When you need to use the word "and" to describe a module’s responsibility, consider whether you’re potentially describing two (or more) responsibilities.

Keep positioned elements that are related to one another within the same module.

#### State classes

Being all state classes with `is-` or `has-`. State classes indicate something about the module’s current state and are expected to change. Examples: `is-expanded`, `is-loading`, or `has-error`. State classes are intended to be added to or removed from the module dynamically using JavaScript.

#### Preprocessors

Place each module of CSS in its own appropriately named file. Then create a master stylesheet that imports all modules.

#### Naming modules

Give the module a name that’s meaningful no matter what context you might want to use it. Avoid names that simply describe the visual appearance.

Ask yourself what this module represents conceptually.

### Utility classes

A utility class does one simple, very specific thing to an element. Keep utility classes all near the end of the stylesheet, below all modules.

Utility classes are the only place you should use the `!important` annotation.

Examples:

```css
.text-center {
  text-align: center !important;
}

.float-left {
  float: left;
}

.clearfix::before,
.clearfix::after {
  content: "";
  display: table;
}
.clearfix::after {
  clear: both;
}

.hidden {
  display: none !important;
}
```

### CSS methodologies

- [OOCSS](https://github.com/stubbornella/oocss/wiki): Object-oriented CSS
- [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/): Scalable and Modular Architecture for CSS
- [BEM](https://en.bem.info/methodology/): Block, Element, Modifier
- [ITCSS](http://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/manage-large-css-projects-itcss-101517528): Inverted Triangle CSS